Maran bashara Al jazer senior political
analyst he joins us from Paris via Skype
uh just that that tweet there just
illustrating that even though we we
heard uh that support that clapping to
Netanyahu as he began his speech there
are still about 50 Democrats who are not
attending uh this speech what does that
tell us about how much division there is
within the Democrats uh towards uh prime
minister
Yahoo well there certainly is a division
among the
Democrats and certainly it
is but um still a majority Democrats
certainly majority
of continue to Pander to continue to
Pander in fact to a fanatic fact Israeli
government uh those who had some courage
did not show up they wouldn't want to be
complicit
in a in a theater of the Absurd
welcoming and sharing a war criminal
while for tending to uh promote peace
and stability and ceasefire so on so
forth in the Middle East this was in
every possible way a um you know a
dramatic dark moment in American history
and the fact that those 50 or so
Democrats refused to show up is to their
credit because those who did show up to
cheer as we've been hearing just the
first few minutes all this cheering is
really in every possible way and I won't
say shameful it's Shameless because
these hundreds of American legislators
know all too well what this war criminal
has done over the past 10 months he
spoke of dozens of
Israelis but he let it to mention
thousands dozens of
thousands of Palestinian children
mothers nurses doctors Engineers
students professors and so on and so
forth that were killed by his military
in Gaza one or two former captives
showed up in Congress but the thousands
of children that he killed wouldn't be
able to make it to Washington maybe one
survival from a family in Gaza showed up
with
Rashida but the tens of thousands who
were killed and continue to be killed I
can't tell you how many dozens of
Palestinian civilians how many children
died since Netanyahu arrived in
Washington probably already some
Palestinians were killed in the past few
minutes as those Congress people and
senators were cheering a war
criminal and given everything you've
just said uh this is his fourth us
Congressional address how do you explain
his influence on Washington lawmakers
Israel well look there is something
called an Israel Lobby it's a very
influential very powerful Lobby made up
of a number of elements including
Christian evangelicals some desist
Jewish
organizations some billionaires and part
of the military industrial complex that
has a lot of investment in Israel Israel
Once Upon a Time could have been
considered an asset to the United States
today it's a burden there is absolutely
zero strategic reason Logic for why uh
this relation continues other than the
Pander into the Israel Lobby all of
these Congressman Senators there few of
them are
ftic uh religious Fanatics ideological
Fanatics like for example the Congress
uh a speaker uh Mike Johnson he's like a
benv of the United States religious
fanatic who's more than happy to see
kingdom come in the so-called holy land
where it's very Unholy nowadays in order
to uh please uh his religious uh
fanatical following in the United States
so the Israel Lobby is the one who B and
brought a lot of these people into
Congress today so the So-Cal Citadel of
democracy in fact is no more than uh the
market place of and I I'm going to have
to use this expression I I realize it's
a bit explosive but this is an utter
political
prostitution whereby those people have
been bought and sold by the Israel Lobby
by the billionair supporters of Israel
in order to support their election
campaigns come November they support
Netanyahu they're not even supporting
Israel for God's sake because most
Israelis do not trust this man the
absolute majority of Israelis want this
man out this is not a sh of support for
Israel this is a sh of support for a
fanatical fascist government that
continues to carry genocide in
Palestine okay Maran stay with us uh we
will return to you I just want to give
get a sense of what is happening
outside uh the White House we can go to
sh Hy who is with uh many thousands of
protesters in Washington DC outside the
capital who are protesting Benjamin
netanyahu's speech and visit to the
United States Maran what's happening
where you uh shab what's happening where
you
are it was quite the dros because at the
very time we saw those members of
Congress greeting Netanyahu with with
the Evas and the warmth the people those
members of Congress were representing
who are out in the streets and their
thousands outside the capital were being
pepper sprayed we were at that very
moment we were with a bunch of people
who were pepper sprayed by the capital
police it was we kind of knew something
was up anyway because they already had
many of them already had their gas masks
their Shields their batons already out
they were very very jumpy they've also
been augmented by scores as far as we
can tell of NYPD New York Police
Department cops and by the way this is
the same Capital police who did nothing
thing when the January 6 protesters
tried to storm the capital they stood
aside but a few Palestinian protesters a
few thousand Palestinian protesters
outside well the pepper spray is already
out but the violence hasn't gone who are
good and evil all the way from
new you when the police already
spraying yeah that was very concerning I
saw some a lot of people on the side of
the road and I was like oh my God one
person was laying on the ground and he
looked like his skin had been impact Ed
I was telling my kids something happened
here like no they're just hot and I was
like no they're itching a lot I'm a
medical Prof their arms out like this
yeah they definitely they were
definitely pepper straight why was it so
important to be here to the risk oh well
we're here to tell Netanyahu that he's
not welcome here he's not really welcome
anywhere the only place that he belongs
is behind bars and I don't think there's
more risk more important than the
children's lives that are being taken
every single day I'd risk my life every
single day for those kids in in
Palestine
Netanyahu well
you well they're all being paid by APAC
unfortunately members of Congress at
least oh yeah definitely I mean like it
was said before it's very well known now
every member of Congress has an apack
man Cara Harris six I believe it's
600,000 from from APAC but I it's
interesting I mean there was that Unity
about not voting for Joe Biden genocide
Joe now that Cara
Harris between those who tget
terrorists she got a
power absolutely not she's completely
complicit in every single Biden policy
and every single thing that was signed
off every eight pack package that was
sent all the bombs she was she never
stood up once and said no this is enough
like this is not right where silence is
an action it's an action in itself you
doing nothing and being biasing crime
okay there are many crimes where if
you're just standing there you're going
to jail for that and that's the way that
we feel about her and she get our votes
let's make that very clear the Solan
family from from New Jersey stay safe
the
marches
okay okay I'm afraid we're GNA we're
going to have to uh leave it there sh
had Brans there for us at those protests
in Washington DC let's return back to
Marwan bashara Al jazer senior political
analyst Maran what do you think prime
minister netan is hoping to achieve with
this speech to Congress
today let me just uh if you can our
viewers can
get where is speaking and I have heard
all his last three speeches to Congress
and he's usually consistent in the way
he makes his speeches into some kind of
a dramatic theater look at the dozens of
pages in front of him these are dozens
of pages this is not a four five page
speech these are dozens of pages that
contain dozens of sound bites cliches
and
lies this is not a speech that is meant
to
formulate a vision or an idea this is
meant as a Public Relation a marketing
campaign for his government for his War
for his vision of an a Israel dominating
the Middle East through the War Machine
and trying to bring the United States
with Israel as he said together we win
we win against whom against the children
of Gaza who did Netanyahu and the United
States Nan and Biden whom did they win
against the last 10 months but the
children and their mothers and fathers
in Gaza who exactly was beaten the last
10 months but dozens
uh of thousands of children and mothers
and fathers and as I said before and
engineers and doctors and civilians of
all sorts of Life the total
Destruction of uh the infrastructure of
more than two million people these are
the people he won against and he's
trying to sell his war effort to the
people who have already been
unconditionally supporting his genocide
his war crimes in Gaza and why I
continue to say Shameless not just
shameful because these people already
have caught up with just the last few
days the last few weeks the last few
months of reports from Gaza air CBS News
ABC News CNN and so on so forth and they
know the cost of this war to
Palestinians to the people of Gaza and
and that cost has been mainly in its
absolute majority against the civilians
in Palestine they are the one who
suffered and America has been complicit
in these lives and from the outset of
the speech he started by repeating
debunked myths and lies about what
happened October 7 there's no doubt
October 7 was gruesome but the beheading
of babies the beheading of men in front
of their children the killing of
children and men and all of the sort of
stuff that he kept repeating the burning
of children alive these have been
debunked but he continues to repeat them
10 months later so all in all he's
trying to sell a genocide to Congress
and they are cheering him
on okay thank you for that Maran Bashar
Al jazer senior political analyst
speaking to us there from
Paris make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer